CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# How to Contribute

When submitting a pull request (PR), please use the following guidelines:

- Make sure your code respects existing formatting conventions. In general, follow
  the same coding style as the code that you are modifying.
- For Intellij you can import our code style settings xml: [druid_intellij_formatting.xml](https://github.com/druid-io/druid/raw/master/druid_intellij_formatting.xml).
- For Eclipse you can import our code style settings xml: [eclipse_formatting.xml](https://github.com/druid-io/druid/raw/master/eclipse_formatting.xml).
- Do add/update documentation appropriately for the change you are making.
- If you are introducing a new feature you may want to first submit your idea
  for feedback to the [mailing list](mailto:druid-development@googlegroups.com).
  Non-trivial features should include unit tests covering the new functionality.
- Bugfixes should include a unit test or integration test reproducing the issue.
- Do not use author tags/information in the code.
- Always include license header on each java file your create. See [this example](https://github.com/druid-io/druid/blob/master/common/src/main/java/io/druid/metadata/PasswordProvider.java)
- Try to keep pull requests short and submit separate ones for unrelated
  features, but feel free to combine simple bugfixes/tests into one pull request.
- Keep the number of commits small and combine commits for related changes.
  Each commit should compile on its own and ideally pass tests.
- Keep formatting changes in separate commits to make code reviews easier and
  distinguish them from actual code changes.

## GitHub Workflow

1. Fork the druid-io/druid repository into your GitHub account

    https://github.com/druid-io/druid/fork

1. Clone your fork of the GitHub repository

    ```sh
    git clone git@github.com:<username>/druid.git
    ```

    replace `<username>` with your GitHub username.

1. Add a remote to keep up with upstream changes

    ```
    git remote add upstream https://github.com/druid-io/druid.git
    ```

    If you already have a copy, fetch upstream changes

    ```
    git fetch upstream master
    ```

1. Create a feature branch to work in

    ```
    git checkout -b feature-xxx remotes/upstream/master
    ```

1. _Before submitting a pull request_ periodically rebase your changes
    (but don't do it when a pull request is already submitted)

    ```
    git pull --rebase upstream master
    ```

1. Before submitting a pull request, combine ("squash") related commits into a single one

    ```
    git rebase -i upstream/master
    ```

    This will open your editor and allow you to re-order commits and merge them:
    - Re-order the lines to change commit order (to the extent possible without creating conflicts)
    - Prefix commits using `s` (squash) or `f` (fixup) to merge extraneous commits.

1. Submit a pull-request

    ```
    git push origin feature-xxx
    ```

    Go to your Druid fork main page

    ```
    https://github.com/<username>/druid
    ```

    If you recently pushed your changes GitHub will automatically pop up a
    `Compare & pull request` button for any branches you recently pushed to. If you
    click that button it will automatically offer you to submit your pull-request
    to the druid-io/druid repository.

    - Give your pull-request a meaningful title.
    - In the description, explain your changes and the problem they are solving.

1. Addressing code review comments

    Address code review comments by committing changes and pushing them to your feature
    branch.

    ```
    git push origin feature-xxx
    ```

### If your pull request shows conflicts with master
  If your pull request shows conflicts with master, merge master into your feature branch:
  

  ```
  git merge upstream/master
  ```
  
  and resolve the conflicts. After resolving conflicts, push your branch again:
  
  ```
  git push origin feature-xxx
  ```

  _Avoid rebasing and force pushes after submitting a pull request,_ since these make it
  difficult for reviewers to see what you've changed in response to their reviews. The Druid
  committer that merges your change will rebase and squash it into a single commit before
  committing it to master.

# FAQ

### Help! I merged changes from upstream and cannot figure out how to resolve conflicts when rebasing!

Never fear! If you occasionally merged upstream/master, here is another way to squash your changes into a single commit:

1. First, rename your existing branch to something else, e.g. `feature-xxx-unclean`

  ```
  git branch -m feature-xxx-unclean
  ```

1. Checkout a new branch with the original name `feature-xxx` from upstream. This branch will supercede our old one.

  ```
  git checkout -b feature-xxx upstream/master
  ```

1. Then merge your changes in your original feature branch `feature-xxx-unclean` and create a single commit.

  ```
  git merge --squash feature-xxx-unclean
  git commit
  ```

1. You can now submit this new branch and create or replace your existing pull request.

  ```
  git push origin [--force] feature-xxx:feature-xxx
  ```

Commit message:

Replace dev list references in docs. (#5723)

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# How to Contribute

When submitting a pull request (PR), please use the following guidelines:

- Make sure your code respects existing formatting conventions. In general, follow
  the same coding style as the code that you are modifying.
- For Intellij you can import our code style settings xml: [druid_intellij_formatting.xml](https://github.com/druid-io/druid/raw/master/druid_intellij_formatting.xml).
- For Eclipse you can import our code style settings xml: [eclipse_formatting.xml](https://github.com/druid-io/druid/raw/master/eclipse_formatting.xml).
- Do add/update documentation appropriately for the change you are making.
- If you are introducing a new feature you may want to first write about your idea
  for feedback to [dev@druid.apache.org](https://lists.apache.org/list.html?dev@druid.apache.org).
  Non-trivial features should include unit tests covering the new functionality.
- Bugfixes should include a unit test or integration test reproducing the issue.
- Do not use author tags/information in the code.
- Always include license header on each java file your create. See [this example](https://github.com/druid-io/druid/blob/master/common/src/main/java/io/druid/metadata/PasswordProvider.java)
- Try to keep pull requests short and submit separate ones for unrelated
  features, but feel free to combine simple bugfixes/tests into one pull request.
- Keep the number of commits small and combine commits for related changes.
  Each commit should compile on its own and ideally pass tests.
- Keep formatting changes in separate commits to make code reviews easier and
  distinguish them from actual code changes.

## GitHub Workflow

1. Fork the druid-io/druid repository into your GitHub account

    https://github.com/druid-io/druid/fork

1. Clone your fork of the GitHub repository

    ```sh
    git clone git@github.com:<username>/druid.git
    ```

    replace `<username>` with your GitHub username.

1. Add a remote to keep up with upstream changes

    ```
    git remote add upstream https://github.com/druid-io/druid.git
    ```

    If you already have a copy, fetch upstream changes

    ```
    git fetch upstream master
    ```

1. Create a feature branch to work in

    ```
    git checkout -b feature-xxx remotes/upstream/master
    ```

1. _Before submitting a pull request_ periodically rebase your changes
    (but don't do it when a pull request is already submitted)

    ```
    git pull --rebase upstream master
    ```

1. Before submitting a pull request, combine ("squash") related commits into a single one

    ```
    git rebase -i upstream/master
    ```

    This will open your editor and allow you to re-order commits and merge them:
    - Re-order the lines to change commit order (to the extent possible without creating conflicts)
    - Prefix commits using `s` (squash) or `f` (fixup) to merge extraneous commits.

1. Submit a pull-request

    ```
    git push origin feature-xxx
    ```

    Go to your Druid fork main page

    ```
    https://github.com/<username>/druid
    ```

    If you recently pushed your changes GitHub will automatically pop up a
    `Compare & pull request` button for any branches you recently pushed to. If you
    click that button it will automatically offer you to submit your pull-request
    to the druid-io/druid repository.

    - Give your pull-request a meaningful title.
    - In the description, explain your changes and the problem they are solving.

1. Addressing code review comments

    Address code review comments by committing changes and pushing them to your feature
    branch.

    ```
    git push origin feature-xxx
    ```

### If your pull request shows conflicts with master
  If your pull request shows conflicts with master, merge master into your feature branch:
  

  ```
  git merge upstream/master
  ```
  
  and resolve the conflicts. After resolving conflicts, push your branch again:
  
  ```
  git push origin feature-xxx
  ```

  _Avoid rebasing and force pushes after submitting a pull request,_ since these make it
  difficult for reviewers to see what you've changed in response to their reviews. The Druid
  committer that merges your change will rebase and squash it into a single commit before
  committing it to master.

# FAQ

### Help! I merged changes from upstream and cannot figure out how to resolve conflicts when rebasing!

Never fear! If you occasionally merged upstream/master, here is another way to squash your changes into a single commit:

1. First, rename your existing branch to something else, e.g. `feature-xxx-unclean`

  ```
  git branch -m feature-xxx-unclean
  ```

1. Checkout a new branch with the original name `feature-xxx` from upstream. This branch will supercede our old one.

  ```
  git checkout -b feature-xxx upstream/master
  ```

1. Then merge your changes in your original feature branch `feature-xxx-unclean` and create a single commit.

  ```
  git merge --squash feature-xxx-unclean
  git commit
  ```

1. You can now submit this new branch and create or replace your existing pull request.

  ```
  git push origin [--force] feature-xxx:feature-xxx
  ```
